DBMS v/s File System
The file system has numerous issues, which were resolved with the help of DBMS. The issues with the file system are:

1- Physical Access Management: Users are responsible for managing the physical details required to access the database.
2- File System Suitability: File systems are effective for handling small databases but lack efficiency for larger ones.
3 -Concurrency Issues: For large databases, the operating system struggles to manage concurrency effectively, leading to potential conflicts.
4- Single-User Access: In a file system, only one user can access the entire dataset at a time, limiting scalability and multi-user functionality.
5- Data access: In a file system, accessing data was difficult and insecure as well. Accessing data concurrently was not possible.
6- No Backup and Recovery: There is no backup and recovery in the file system, which can lead to data loss.

Entity!!!!



Entity: The entity is a real-world object, represented using a rectangular box.

Strong Entity: A strong entity set has a primary key and all the tuples of the set can be identified using that primary key
Weak entity: When an entity does not have sufficient attributes to form a primary key. Weak entities are associated with another strong entity set also known as identifying an entity. A weak entity's existence depends upon the existence of its identifying entity. The weak entity is represented using a double-lined or bold-lined rectangle. 

Attribute: Attribute is the properties or characteristics of the real-world object. It is represented using an oval. 

Key attribute: The attribute which determines each entity uniquely is known as the Key attribute. It is represented by an oval with an underlying line. 
Composite Attribute: An attribute that is composed of many other attributes. E.g. address is an attribute it is formed of other attributes like state, district, city, street, etc. It is represented using an oval comprises of many other ovals. 
Multivalued Attribute: An attribute that can have multiple values, like a mobile number. It is represented using a double-lined oval. 
Derived attribute: An attribute that can be derived from other attributes. E.g. Age is an attribute that can be derived from another attribute Data of Birth. It is represented using a dashed oval.


Relationship: A relationship is an association between two or more entities. Entities are connected or related to each other and this relationship is represented using a diamond. 

Participation Constraint: It specifies the maximum or a minimum number of relationship instances in which any entity can participate. In simple words, participation means how an entity is linked to a relationship.

Total Participation: Every entity in the entity set participates in at least one relationship in the relationship set.
Example:
In the "Manages" relationship between Emp (Employee) and Dept (Department):
If every department must have a manager, then Dept has total participation in the "Manages" relationship.
Partial Participation: Some entities in the entity set participate in the relationship, but not all.
Example:
In the same "Manages" relationship:
If not all employees are managers, then Emp has partial participation in the "Manages" relationship.


Cardinality in DBMS
Cardinality of relation expresses the maximum number of possible relationship occurrences for an entity participating in a relationship. Cardinality of a relationship can be defined as the number of times an entity of an entity set participates in a relationship set. Let's suppose a binary relationship R between two entity sets A and B.  The relationship must have one of the following mapping cardinalities:

One-to-One: When one entity of A is related to at most one entity of B, and vice-versa.
One-to-Many: When one entity of A is related to one or more than one entity of B. Whereas B is associated with at most one entity in A. 
Many-to-One: When one entity of B is related to one or more than one entity of A. Whereas A is associated with at most one entity in B. 
Many-to-Many: Any number of entities of A is related to any number of entities of B, and vice-versa. 
